packaging.md, before:

# Readium Packaging Format (RPF)

This specification defines a file format for packaging into a single-file container the set of related resources and associated metadata that comprise a Readium Web Publication.

**Editors:**

* Hadrien Gardeur ([De Marque](http://www.demarque.com))
* Laurent Le Meur ([EDRLab](http://www.edrlab.org))

**Participate:**

* [GitHub readium/webpub-manifest](https://github.com/readium/webpub-manifest)
* [File an issue](https://github.com/readium/webpub-manifest/issues)


## 1. Introduction

A Readium Web Publication is often distributed unpackaged on the Web, but it also may be packaged for easy distribution as a single file. 

A Readium Web Publication Manifest may also be included in an EPUB 3 publication and therefore directly reference media resources present in the package. This method paves the way to hybrid publications, which can e.g. be both valid EPUB 3 and Divina publications. When played in Divina compliant software, users will benefit from advanced features like transitions, guided navigation, layers, sound effects etc. which are not available in the EPUB 3 format.   

## 2. Terminology 

<dl>
 <dt id="codec">Codec content types</dt>
 <dd>Content types that have intrinsic binary format qualities, such as video and audio media types which are already designed for optimum compression, or which provide optimized streaming capabilities.</dd>
 <dt id="non-codec">Non-Codec content types</dt>
 <dd>Content types that benefit from compression due to the nature of their internal data structure, such as file formats based on character strings (for example, HTML, CSS, etc.).</dd>
 <dt id="package">Package</dt>
 <dd>Single-file container for the set of constituent resources and associated metadata that comprise a digital publication.</dd>
 <dt id="root-directory">Root Directory</dt>
 <dd>Base directory of the Package file system.</dd>
</dl>

## 3. Packaging format

For packaging the set of constituent resources and associated metadata that comprise a digital publication, this specification uses the ZIP format as specified in [ISO/IEC 21320-1:2015](http://standards.iso.org/ittf/PubliclyAvailableStandards/c060101_ISO_IEC_21320-1_2015.zip) and [zip](https://pkware.cachefly.net/webdocs/casestudies/APPNOTE.TXT).

In the absence of values defined at the level of a Readium Web Publication [profile](profiles/):

- The media type <strong class="rfc">must</strong> be `application/webpub+zip`
- The file extension <strong class="rfc">must</strong> be `.webpub`

A publication where any resource is encrypted using a DRM <strong class="rfc">must</strong> use a different media type and file extension.

## 4. Compression of resources

When stored in a Package, resources with [Non-Codec content types](#non-codec) <strong class="rfc">should</strong> be compressed and the Deflate compression algorithm MUST be used. This practice ensures that file entries stored in the Package have a smaller size.

Resources with [Codec content types](#codec) <strong class="rfc">should</strong> be stored without compression. In such case, compression would introduce unnecessary processing overhead at production time (especially with large resource files) and would impact audio/video playback performance at consumption time.

## 5. File Structure

A [Package](#package) <strong class="rfc">must</strong> include in its [Root Directory](#root-directory) a file named `manifest.json`, which <strong class="rfc">must</strong> be in the format defined for [Readium Web Publication Manifests](README.md).

The contents of `manifest.json` <strong class="rfc">must</strong> not be encrypted.

A Package <strong class="rfc">must</strong> also include all resources within the bounds of the digital publication, i.e. the finite set of resources obtained from the union of resources listed in the `reading order` and `resources` Link Arrays of the Readium Web Publication Manifest.

These resource files <strong class="rfc">may</strong> be in any location descendant from the Root Directory, or in the Root Directory itself.

Contents within the Package <strong class="rfc">must</strong> reference these resources via [relative-URL strings](https://url.spec.whatwg.org/#relative-url-string).


## 6. Hybrid EPUB 3 + RPF Packages

As an alternative to the creation of a pure RPF package, the manifest may also be included into an EPUB 3 publication and directly reference the media resources present in the package.

An RPF compliant application will therefore be able to process the file as an RPF package, while an EPUB 3 compliant application will process it as a standard EPUB 3 publication. 

If a Readium Web Publication Manifest is included in an EPUB 3 file, the following restriction apply:

- The EPUB 3 package document <strong class="rfc">must</strong> include a link to the Readium Web Publication Manifest, where the link relation is set to `alternate`
- The EPUB 3 package document <strong class="rfc">must</strong> include in its `manifest` structure a reference to the Readium Web Publication Manifest.
- - The EPUB 3 package document <strong class="rfc">must</strong> include in its `manifest` structure a reference to any resource (e.g. sound) used in the Readium Web Publication Manifest.


*Example 1: Reference to a Manifest file in an EPUB 3 OPF structure*

```xml
<metadata>
      <link rel="alternate" 
            href="manifest.json" 
            media-type="application/webpub+json" />
</metadata>
...
<manifest>
    <item href="manifest.json" media-type="application/webpub+json" id="rwpm"/>
    ...
</manifest>
```

Commit message:

Clarifies the format of resource file locations as relative path in the zip archive.

packaging.md, after:

# Readium Packaging Format (RPF)

This specification defines a file format for packaging into a single-file container the set of related resources and associated metadata that comprise a Readium Web Publication.

**Editors:**

* Hadrien Gardeur ([De Marque](http://www.demarque.com))
* Laurent Le Meur ([EDRLab](http://www.edrlab.org))

**Participate:**

* [GitHub readium/webpub-manifest](https://github.com/readium/webpub-manifest)
* [File an issue](https://github.com/readium/webpub-manifest/issues)


## 1. Introduction

A Readium Web Publication is often distributed unpackaged on the Web, but it also may be packaged for easy distribution as a single file. 

A Readium Web Publication Manifest may also be included in an EPUB 3 publication and therefore directly reference media resources present in the package. This method paves the way to hybrid publications, which can e.g. be both valid EPUB 3 and Divina publications. When played in Divina compliant software, users will benefit from advanced features like transitions, guided navigation, layers, sound effects etc. which are not available in the EPUB 3 format.   

## 2. Terminology 

<dl>
 <dt id="codec">Codec content types</dt>
 <dd>Content types that have intrinsic binary format qualities, such as video and audio media types which are already designed for optimum compression, or which provide optimized streaming capabilities.</dd>
 <dt id="non-codec">Non-Codec content types</dt>
 <dd>Content types that benefit from compression due to the nature of their internal data structure, such as file formats based on character strings (for example, HTML, CSS, etc.).</dd>
 <dt id="package">Package</dt>
 <dd>Single-file container for the set of constituent resources and associated metadata that comprise a digital publication.</dd>
 <dt id="root-directory">Root Directory</dt>
 <dd>Base directory of the Package file system.</dd>
</dl>

## 3. Packaging format

For packaging the set of constituent resources and associated metadata that comprise a digital publication, this specification uses the ZIP format as specified in [ISO/IEC 21320-1:2015](http://standards.iso.org/ittf/PubliclyAvailableStandards/c060101_ISO_IEC_21320-1_2015.zip) and [zip](https://pkware.cachefly.net/webdocs/casestudies/APPNOTE.TXT).

In the absence of values defined at the level of a Readium Web Publication [profile](profiles/):

- The media type <strong class="rfc">must</strong> be `application/webpub+zip`
- The file extension <strong class="rfc">must</strong> be `.webpub`

A publication where any resource is encrypted using a DRM <strong class="rfc">must</strong> use a different media type and file extension.

## 4. Compression of resources

When stored in a Package, resources with [Non-Codec content types](#non-codec) <strong class="rfc">should</strong> be compressed and the Deflate compression algorithm MUST be used. This practice ensures that file entries stored in the Package have a smaller size.

Resources with [Codec content types](#codec) <strong class="rfc">should</strong> be stored without compression. In such case, compression would introduce unnecessary processing overhead at production time (especially with large resource files) and would impact audio/video playback performance at consumption time.

## 5. File Structure

A [Package](#package) <strong class="rfc">must</strong> include in its [Root Directory](#root-directory) a file named `manifest.json`, which <strong class="rfc">must</strong> be in the format defined for [Readium Web Publication Manifests](README.md).

The contents of `manifest.json` <strong class="rfc">must</strong> not be encrypted.

A Package <strong class="rfc">must</strong> also include all resources within the bounds of the digital publication, i.e. the finite set of resources obtained from the union of resources listed in the `reading order` and `resources` Link Arrays of the Readium Web Publication Manifest.

These resource files <strong class="rfc">may</strong> be in any location descendant from the Root Directory, or in the Root Directory itself.

Resource files <strong class="rfc">must</strong> be referenced via a relative path, which do not start with a drive letter (such as "C:"), use forward slashes instead of back slashes and do not end with a trailing slash.


## 6. Hybrid EPUB 3 + RPF Packages

As an alternative to the creation of a pure RPF package, the manifest may also be included into an EPUB 3 publication and directly reference the media resources present in the package.

An RPF compliant application will therefore be able to process the file as an RPF package, while an EPUB 3 compliant application will process it as a standard EPUB 3 publication. 

If a Readium Web Publication Manifest is included in an EPUB 3 file, the following restriction apply:

- The EPUB 3 package document <strong class="rfc">must</strong> include a link to the Readium Web Publication Manifest, where the link relation is set to `alternate`
- The EPUB 3 package document <strong class="rfc">must</strong> include in its `manifest` structure a reference to the Readium Web Publication Manifest.
- - The EPUB 3 package document <strong class="rfc">must</strong> include in its `manifest` structure a reference to any resource (e.g. sound) used in the Readium Web Publication Manifest.


*Example 1: Reference to a Manifest file in an EPUB 3 OPF structure*

```xml
<metadata>
      <link rel="alternate" 
            href="manifest.json" 
            media-type="application/webpub+json" />
</metadata>
...
<manifest>
    <item href="manifest.json" media-type="application/webpub+json" id="rwpm"/>
    ...
</manifest>
```
